The land of Sindh is said to be religiously well fertile as many of God
dedicated souls are born in this region along with Sindhi deity Jhulelal. Since
the days of Indus valley civilisation land of Sindh is known as the land of
Saints, sufis, Darvesh and Fakirs.
All these were impartial about the caste, color and creed and have spread
spirituality and heavenly message with equality among the entire human
beings. World's first ever known human civilisation "Mohan-jo-daro" also
belongs to historic land of Sindh.
Raja Dahar was the last Hindu king of Sindh was defeated by Mohamed Bin Qasim, during whose rule on
Sindh and after this period Islam was spread over the land of sindh under the powers of sword instead of
normal way of conviction.
Towards the second half of tenth century kingdom of "Thatta" was acquired by Makrab Khan by killing Shah
Sadakat Khan and crowned self as "Mirak Shah". His courtiers advise him to spread Islam for getting Janat
[Haven], following to this suggestion he called the leaders [Mukhi] of Hindus and kept two options of either to
become followers of Islam or be ready for untimely death before them and ask for choosing one. This was a
hard call for Hindus of the Sindh, as they all were aware that Mirak Shah was hardcore Islam follower.
it was not an easy decision to be taken herice the Panchs [leaders] called all Hindus, thousands were gathered
on the bank of river Sindhu and prayed Jal Devata Dariyashah [water God] for safe guarding them from the
cruel and undesirable actions of Mirik Shah. History says that this prayer was lost for long forty days and all
the Hindus were there with same cloths, without shaving, footwear and they were having bath without oil &
soap, as there was a huge gathering so they have to take very simple food. [In the present times this is
celebrated as "Chaliho Saheb"
After forty days a divine voice "Aakashwani" v
heard by gathering
Don't fear, I will take birth at Nasarpur in the house of Devaki & Tarachand Lohano and will rescue you all".
Hindus asked to Mirik shah for granting time for reaching to decision. As shah was knowing that Hindus were
at his mercy and he can kill them at any given moment so he granted time.